Before I discuss the answers to exercise number one,
I want to stress that the younger you start to save,
the better.
And if you're older, don't worry,
as we'll cover many personal finance strategies
in this course.
And so, if you've not started saving,
then promise me, please, promise me
that the next time you get a raise,
please have the money automatically taken
out of every single paycheck.
As that additional savings should be
out of sight and out of mind.
If you don't see it you won't spend it.
And I want you to get to the point
where you save 10-20% of every single paycheck eventually.
I actually think it's a lot of fun
to come up with ways to save,
and I like to think of saving like it's a game.
And when we do the budget section,
later in the course, you'll see what I mean,
as you influence your family, your friends,
your loved ones, et cetera,
to also think in terms of how to save money.
And I want us to be very conservative when saving,
so I won't spend much time discussing pensions,
or Social Security money,
that you might be receiving when you retire,
as I don't want to rely on this.
And there's many reasons why.
I guess one of the reasons is we have no idea
how much taxes we're gonna be paying
in the future, et cetera,
and if governments say, "No new taxes,"
don't believe it, ever.
Read my lips. No new taxes.
Then he gave us the second biggest
tax increase in American history.
Okay, and so I really hope that this exercise,
number one, really motivates you to save even more.
And I want you to please just think about,
think about everything you spend money on
as worth a lot more in the future,
which will help us not to overspend
on small items that really add up.
And so let's now take a look at the answers
to question number one.
With most of the questions,
there's one unknown variable in the equation.
And so for question #1, we know that in three years,
we want to buy a car that costs ₣10,000.
So we know the amount of time,
we know the dollar amount at the end,
and we also know the interest rate
that our money's gonna earn in the bank.
And so the only unknown variable is
how much money do we need to save per month?
And so we're gonna use the solver,
or goal seek, I should say,
utility here.
So let me open this up,
it'll take a second for it to load.
And I already have the answer here for you,
but let's just say that I wanted to delete this.
We can solve for this now.
We know it's three years,
we just have to find out the monthly savings.
And so the value in three years,
and I already calculated for you here,
that we're gonna take the interest rate divided by 12,
because that's the interest per month.
We're making monthly payments,
or monthly savings.
And the same thing here, with the number of periods
for saving here, so interest rate's divided by 12,
and the savings rate is also going to be divided by 12,
or actually multiplied by 12 in this case,
because we want to go from monthly to yearly,
so we speak about it in the same terms.
12 to 12.
And if that doesn't make sense to you, please let me know.
So let's use solver.
We want to get, and you'll hear me say "solver"
and "goal seek."
they're basically the same thing,
and they've been kind of branded differently
over the years by Excel.
Microsoft, that is.
So what we're gonna do,
is we're gonna set this value here to 10,000, ₣10,000,
by changing this cell.
Now I can click on that and then go click here,
or just click right away here.
Either way works.
We can go, OK.
And it's gonna take a second to solve here.
Alright, almost there.
Yay, okay, cool.
So the answer is ₣247.
We need to save ₣247 every single month for three years.
Now just for fun, let's assume we made
no interest on that over three years.
So 247 saved per month,
times three years times 12.
That's that amount there.
Of course the difference between this amount,
8,892 and ₣10,000, is the fact that of course
we're making money by investing the money here,
with an interest rate of 8% per year.
Moving on to question #2,
we want to have ₣100,000 in 20 years
in order to send our child to college.
It's expensive, eh?
If we assume that the interest rate in savings is 12.5%,
how much do we need to save every single month
in order to have ₣100,000 in 20 years?
Well, similar to the last question,
there's one unknown variable,
which is how much to save per month.
So the math will be quite similar here.
So let's click here to see the answer.
And so the monthly savings turns out to be 94.47.
And we used solver here again to get that value.
So let me delete this variable here.
And let's calculate it.
Actually, you can take all of them out
if you wanted to.
So the number of years, we know, is 20 years.
The annual interest rate is 12.5.
And this is the green one, which means you can't change it.
I already accounted for in here, the number of months.
And the interest payment, or I should say
the rate per month, and the number of periods per year.
So 12, because we're calculating it monthly.
So we're gonna use solver, or goal seek, same thing.
And we're gonna go to what-if analysis here, goal seek.
And we're gonna set this value here to ₣100,000
by changing this cell here,
and Excel is going to calculate.
There we go, great.
So the answer is we would need to save ₣94.47
every single month for 20 years
at this interest rate, in order to send
our child to college.
Moving on to question #3, and I wish I read this one
when I was younger. (laughs)
So let's say that you're gonna go party with your friends.
And you're planning on spending ₣50 that night,
which is a lot,
but instead of spending ₣50,
you limit yourself to spending only ₣10 that night.
And so we're gonna take the ₣40
and we're going to invest it annually
at a return of 12% for 50 years.
And so the question is, what is that one-time savings
of ₣40 gonna be worth in 50 years
at an interest rate of 12%?
There's one unknown variable here as well.
The green ones don't change,
but I'm gonna change,
I'm sorry, it's updating, it takes a second.
There we go. Good.
I'm gonna calculate the future value.
And we talked about this earlier.
To calculate the future value of a one-time savings,
it's pretty easy.
What you do is you equal,
you take the savings, and it's gonna be worth more
in the future, so we're gonna multiply it by
by one plus the interest rate, that's .12.
And how many years?
Well, you're gonna have to do it to the power of time.
Hit Enter, and voila.
Here's your answer.
You would end up having ₣11,560
if that one night you decided to only spend ₣10
instead of 50.
Let's move on to question #4, which actually builds
on question #3.
The only difference is that instead of saving ₣40 one time,
you decide to save ₣40 every single month for 50 years.
You decide to save ₣40 by only spending ₣10.
Maybe you bought beers and drank them at home,
or went out partying with your friends
at a cheaper place, whatever it is.
Too much information, I know.
Sorry. (laughs)
So, all we're gonna do in this case is,
it's very similar to the last question,
except we're not gonna do the future value
of a one-time payment.
We're actually gonna do the future value
of many payments, and I'm gonna show you
exactly how this works.
Excel is amazing, because if you enter in FV,
and open brackets, it's gonna anticipate
what you're trying to do.
We got 12%, divided by 12 periods per year.
And then we've got 50 years
times 12 payments per year,
and then you hit comma one more time,
and it's gonna say, hey, what's the payment?
And you say it's ₣40.
You close brackets, you hit Enter,
and let me make this a little bit smaller.
I think I gotta actually make it smaller this way.
There we go. Good. Yeah.
Okay, so it's actually ₣1.5 million
you'll be saving.
And it's amazing, and you can actually put in here,
minus one times that amount.
It's the same thing.
And you'll see here that we took the logic
from the math here, and it puts it into English here.
And you would save ₣1.562 million over 50 years.
Isn't that amazing?
It's amazing.
Every time you go out with your buddies,
just think about how much money you can save
by instead of buying drinks from an expensive restaurant
or bar, whatever, just kind of have drinks at home,
alcoholic or non-alcoholic, it's the same thing.
They make ridiculous margins on both of them.
And that's why when you go to McDonald's,
they always say, "Would you like a Coke with that?"
Because there is basically no margins,
McDonald's doesn't make money on really anything
except for drinks.
And a little bit on fries as well.
In terms of question #5, we're almost halfway there.
Now, you decide that after you watch this entire course,
that all 100 plus of the savings methodologies,
or savings tips, I give you in the course
make sense to you, and that's not gonna happen,
but just pretend it does. (laughs)
So, let's say that you save an extra 100 bucks, or ₣100,
every single month after watching this course.
And in 30 years, if the interest rate on your savings
is 15%, what would that additional ₣100 be worth?
The savings, every single month, in 30 years.
What we're gonna do for this one,
and the math is quite similar to the last one,
just let me refresh this, taking a second,
here we go, good.
So we only have one unknown variable,
which is the value in 30 years.
So I'm gonna go equals future value,
open brackets, the rate,
and we know we're doing it monthly
so we're dividing that by 12,
the number of periods, we got 30 years,
but we're doing it monthly, so times 12,
and then the payment.
Close brackets, and there we go.
It's ₣692,000.
Again, I'm gonna multiply this by -1,
minus one times,
and there is our additional savings here.
It's pretty amazing, eh?
Pretty cool.
And the really neat thing about this is
if you change this from 30 years to 35,
watch what happens.
Isn't that amazing?
That's incredible. Incredible.
That tiny change, five years at the tail end,
is massive, and when we create financial models
for companies, the terminal value,
meaning the last year, or last couple years,
is usually the bulk of what a company is worth
in the future, is what they make many years from now.
A little off-topic, so isn't that incredible?
Watch, let's change to 31.
So just one more year, that's what you get.
What if we go 40?
Wow. Wow. Okay. Amazing.
Go back to 30.
Okay, cool.
Let's build on this logic for question #6,
so we're gonna do the exact same question,
except we're gonna assume that we're gonna save
₣150 per month instead of ₣100 per month.
And the interest rate is going to be 15%,
which was the same as the last question.
But instead of 30 years, we're gonna do it for 50 years.
Check this out, this will blow you away.
The question is, what is your savings in 50 years,
by saving that amount per month?
So we're gonna do, and I'm just gonna multiply it
by minus one, I think you understand now.
Times future value, and what's the rate,
it's that over 12 months.
Comma, I love Excel.
Number of periods, it's 50 times 12.
That's over 12 months, 50 times 12.
Comma, what's the payment?
Close brackets, boom.
Wow, man. Look at that.
Look at that. Huh.
₣20.7 million would be saved in 50 years.
So we had an additional 20 years,
and an additional ₣50 per month,
with the same interest rate,
and look at the differential.
Before we were at 692, now we're at 20.7 million.
It's incredible, just amazing.
Just amazing, and I hope you love how awesome
compound interest can be.
And all you gotta do is just save a little bit more
every month, or every day, than you think you should.
And it all adds up in the long run.
Now let's move on to question #7,
but you know what I've done, actually,
is I've clicked this button here, up here, you see it?
Number two, and when you click that, it opens up
every single one of these hidden answers, here.
Just to save us time.
It takes a while to open them.
Okay, so number seven.
This is a great question, I love this one.
Okay, so, I really want to impress upon you
the fact that you can lose a lot of money,
or leave a lot of money on the table,
if you invest in mutual funds
that charge fees that are too high,
and I'll go through this in a lot of detail
in part three of the course,
but I want to put this on your radar screen right now,
because it makes me sick how much these mutual funds
make from us.
Okay, so mutual funds charge a couple percent more sometimes
than index funds.
I'll talk about that in more detail later.
And so the question here is asking you to compare
a mutual fund investment return
with an index fund investment return.
And the mutual fund in this hypothetical case
has 3% higher fees than the index fund,
which is why the mutual fund is only gonna return 8%
versus 11% for the index fund.
And then the final a-ha moment answer
for this question here, if I double-click,
is just gonna be how much more money do we make
by investing in an index fund
versus a mutual fund, given the better fee structure
with the index fund.
Okay, good.
So similar to the last question,
here's what we're gonna do.
We're gonna say equals minus one,
times the future value of, what's the rate?
That divided by 12,
comma, number of years, 25 years, times 12,
'cause it's monthly.
Comma, that, enter,
and we're gonna make ₣95,103 for 25 years
of saving a hundred.